>> Steve Kinney: If we
didn't have electron forge,
we would need to install
electron rebuild and
put it in the post install step like
we saw, but we do have it in place.
So here we're gonna just do a npm install,
I probably already have in place for
this one but just in case.
>> Steve Kinney: SQLite again
is a compiled dependency.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll go
ahead as that is loading,
I'm gonna start writing some code.
So I'm gonna make a new file hidden here
called database.js which is just going to
be the abstraction for that so
I have to think about it anymore.
And as I mentioned earlier,
this is mostly to show that we can use
native databases in our application.
You might be like clippings really
that involves a SQL database.
Okay, I get it, but
we're making a point here cool.
So in this case we gonna be using
this in the lender process so
we gonna need to talk a little bit to the
main process with remote as well, mostly
cuz we wanna get those app, remember
app.get path used for desktop earlier.
We gonna want that for
the users data directory,
right this is where given applications
can store stuff for a given user.
So you can keep settings and
stuff along those lines.
We don't wanna put it like in a desktop.
We don't wanna put a SQL database there or
documents.
We wanna put it in the place
that we're supposed to put it.
Even though we're using this code
mostly from the render process.
So we're gonna need to use
remote module slightly.
So let's go ahead in here, and
we'll say, import path from path.
This is the Node library and
we'll do import remote from electron.
And then we'll just import.
>> Steve Kinney: Knex from knex.
Knex is basically Node binding for
SQL and SQLite and Postgres.
And so rather than writing strings of SQL,
you get a premise based JavaScript API,
that will do that all for you.
And then we'll do import SQLite3.
All right, very cool.
We'll get that app from the remote module
just so we can get that directory.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll configure a database.
>> Steve Kinney: We are going to do this
kind of a little fast and loose, right?
We're not gonna write a whole set
of migrations and stuff like that,
which means the very first time we use
this, it'll get very angry with us, but
it's okay.
All right, so we'll say that
the client that we wanna use for
knex because knex will work with MariaDB,
MySQL, Postgres, and SQLite.
So we're saying hey,
I'm gonna be using this with SQLite3.
And with SQLite, SQLite just
uses a file not necessarily like
a database server that
you'd connect to directly.
So we'll say the connection
filename path.join,
I'll do app.getpath.
User data, I'll get ourself
our own directory in there.
Our own file name will say
clipmaster-clippings.sqlite.
So path.join basically
is useful rather like
I put too many clashes because
it tried to concatenate strings.
It's just basically a way to
put together a full path.
So we're gonna get
the applications user data,
and then we're gonna
make a SQLite database.
No semicolon,
called clipmaster.clippings.sqlite.
>> Steve Kinney: And
one other setting that we need for
SQLite is use null as default, it's true.
All right, so we've got a database.
The only other thing we
need is to make a table.
So we're gonna see if the table exists.
If it doesn't we'll go ahead and
make it, this means technically like
depending on how you run your code.
It might blow up the first time and
we're refreshing,
the table will exist because it's async.
But we'll be okay with it.
So we do a database schema,
has table, clippings.
So check to see if the database
has a table called clippings.
>> Steve Kinney: And
that we're trying to boolean on whether or
not that table exists.
Cuz everything is effectively
promise-based in knex.
So we'll say, okay.
If it doesn't exist,
we'll go ahead and make one.
>> Steve Kinney: Go ahead and
create a table called clippings.
>> Steve Kinney: And that'll give
us back the table where we're gonna
have to make our columns.
>> Steve Kinney: I got in
different engineering cuz I like
database migrations.
We'll give it that ID column
that we had in our react model.
It will be the primary,
they'll increment every time.
And we'll create a text
field called content, right?
Very simple SQL table,
>> Steve Kinney: And
then we'll export default
our new database.
So this will create a SQLite database,
which is a file based database, in
the user's application settings directory.
So that's percent sign app
data percent sign on Windows.
That is the hidden library directory
in their user directory on macOS.
Somewhere on Linux.
>> Steve Kinney: And
it will put that database there, and
then we'll have access to
it once it's been created.
>> Steve Kinney: So now we can go ahead
and we can pull that in in our renderer
process, which is, yeah,
from the renderer process.
From the same place we were writing react
code, we can directly write SQL queries.
That seems safe and good, right?
Saves what we're used to.
Like who doesn't do that in
their normal web applications?
All of us.
>> Steve Kinney: Database from,
>> Steve Kinney: ./database.
All right, so
things that we could is we're basically
gonna need to do some crowd actions here.
We're going to want to get everything out
of the database so we can put in the UI.
We are going to want to
add stuff to the database.
And then theoretically, we might want to
at least delete stuff from the database.
And possibly even update
stuff on the database, right?
Maybe not, right?
But we're doing it, so whatever.
And so the first thing we
might choose to do is have
the ability to fetch all of
the clippings in the database.
>> Steve Kinney: So we could say something
along the lines of fetchClippings.
>> Steve Kinney: And fetchClippings
will do basically say database,
which table clippings and
if we can just call the select method,
which is select star that will get
everything out of the database.
>> Steve Kinney: And
once we have those clippings,
>> Steve Kinney: We'll just go ahead and,
update the application state,
took everything out of the database,
put it into the component state.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll just
bind that as well up here.
>> Steve Kinney: We can do that
when the component mounts.
Which point we'll see that the wall
will vanish because we'll replace
it within the database.
And what's in the database?
Nothing [LAUGH] so
it'll be an empty array.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, let's kill
it off and start it back up again.
>> Steve Kinney: Preparing native
dependencies, zero out of one.
Anyone want to venture a guess what that
one data dependency is SQLite, right?
So at this point it's like hey,
you have a compile dependency that is
not the right version for Electron.
So what it's gonna do at this point
is it's going to go ahead and
recompile that for the version of
Node that is bundled with Electron.
This is very similar to if we ran
an Electron rebuild after installing it
in the first place.
But it is going ahead and getting that for
us with a really nice UI as well.
I mean nice is a strong word.
That thing entertains me.
Let's put it that way.
How about that.
Then I'll go ahead and load right up.
So let's just give that one second.
Cuz our application will
not start until it's there.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay, this stuff
fetchItems is not a function, all right?
Cuz it's not called fetchItems,
it's called fetchClippings.
>> Steve Kinney: Would have been
great to know before we waited for
the database, but cool.
At this point,
you can see that there's nothing there
which is actually surprisingly
good since that lull
was built in there by default
which means the fact that there's
nothing on the screen means
that it's working [LAUGH] cool.
Sweet so now we wanna be able to
put something into the database, so
we're just gonna modify add
clippings a little bit.
Where we'll say database,
look at that clippings table again.
>> Steve Kinney: And
will insert the content.
We don't have to make our own data
now ID because the database is gonna
automatically increment for one for us.
So we'll insert that in there,
and then we'll just go ahead and
fetch all of the clippings again.
Could we do optimistic updates?
Yeah, totally, but
we're gonna keep this simple.
So we get rid of all of this code here.
>> Steve Kinney: And try it like that.
I'm just gonna give this a quick refresh,
do a copy from clipboard.
Content is not defined, that is true.
I deleted a little bit too much.
>> Steve Kinney: Do clipboard.readText.
>> Speaker 2: Typo.
>> Steve Kinney: Where?
Read text, good catch.
>> Steve Kinney: There it is, that's
the apparently the last thing I copied,
seems right.
What happens if I refresh the page now?
>> Steve Kinney: Boom, still there.
Persisted in the database.
I could make a point and go ahead like
close the app and stuff like that.
I can close the app, delete the app,
reinstall the app but
it will still be there because I didn't
remove the database from my library,
but now we have persistence
like a real application, right.
It's not just like holding stuff in
the dom and hoping for the best,
it is literally stored, this application,
we can survive a restart with it, so
on and so forth.